Building a Big Data Strategy.
Before we focus on big data strategy,
let's look at what strategy means.
Although it is associated
with a military term,
a dictionary search on strategy shows
the meaning as a plan of action or
policy designed to achieve a major or
overall aim.
This definition calls out the four major
parts that need to be in any strategy.
Namely, aim, policy, plan, and action.
Now, we are talking about
a big data strategy.
So what do these four terms mean for us?
When building our big data strategy,
we look at what we have,
what high level goals we want to achieve,
what we need to do to get there,
and what are the policies around
data from the beginning to the end.
A big data strategy starts
with big objectives.
Notice that I didn't say it
starts with collecting data
because in this activity we
are really trying to identify what
data is useful and
why by focusing on what data to collect.
Every organization or team is unique.
Different projects have
different objectives.
Hence, it's important to first
define what your team's goals are.
Have you ever had the scenario where you
see the temperature on the weather report
and someone else highlights
the humidity instead?
To find problems relevant to solve and
data related to it, it might be
useful to start with your objectives.
Once you define these objectives, or
more generally speaking, questions to turn
big data into advantage for your business,
you can look at what you have and
analyze the gaps and actions to get there.
It is important to focus
on both short term and
long term objectives in this activity.
These objectives should also be linked
to big data analytics with business
objectives.
To make the best use of big data,
each company needs to evaluate how
data science or big data analytics would
add value to their business objectives.
Once you have established that
analytics can help your business,
you need to create
a culture to embrace it.
The first and foremost ingredient for
a successful data science program
is organizational buy-in.
A big data strategy must
have commitment and
sponsorship from the company's leadership.
Goals for using big data analytics should
be developed with all stakeholders and
clearly communicated to
everyone in the organization.
So that its value is understood and
appreciated by all.
The next step is to build
your data science team.
A diverse team with data scientists,
information technologists,
application developers, and business
owners is necessary to be effective.
As well as the mentality that everyone
works together as partners with
common goals.
Remember, one for all.
No one is a customer or
service provider of another.
Rather, everyone works together and
delivers as a team.
Since big data is a team game,
and multi-disciplinary,
a big part of a big data
strategy is constant training
of team members on new big data tools and
analytics.
As well as business practices and
objectives.
This becomes even more critical if your
business depends on deep expertise
on one or more subject areas with subject
matter experts working on problems,
utilizing big data.
Such businesses might have subject matter
experts who can be trained to add big
data skills, and provide more value added
support than a newcomer would have.
Similarly, any project member would
be trained to understand what
the business objectives and
products are, and how he or
she can utilize big data to improve those
objectives using his or her skills.
Many organizations might benefit by having
a small data science team whose main job
is do data experiments and test new ideas
before they get deployed at full scale.
They might come up with
a new idea themselves
based on the analysis they perform.
They take more research level role.
However, their findings can drastically
shape your business strategy
almost on a daily basis.
The impact of such teams
becomes evident over time
as other parts of your organization starts
to see the results of their finding and
analysis affecting their strategies.
They become strategic partners of
all verticals in your business.
Once you see that something works,
you can start collecting more data to see
similar results at organizational scale.
Since data is key to any big
data initiative, it is essential
that data across the organization
is easily accessed and integrated.
Data silos as you know, are like
a death knell on effective analytics.
So barriers to data
access must be removed.
Opening up the silos must be encouraged
and supported from the organization's
leaders in order to promote a data
sharing mindset for the company.
Another aspect of defining
your big data strategy
is defining the policies around big data.
Although it has an amazing amount
of potential for your business,
using big data should also raise some
concerns in long term planning for data.
Although this is a very complex issue,
here are some questions you should
think of addressing around policy.
What are the privacy concerns?
Who should have access to,
or control data?
What is the lifetime of data,
which is sometimes defined as volatility,
anatomy of big data?
How does data get curated and cleaned up?
What ensures data quality
in the long term?
How do different parts of your
organization communicate or
interoperate using this data?
Are there any legal and
regulatory standards in place?
Cultivating an analytics
driven culture is crucial
to the success of a big data strategy.
The mindset that you want to
establish is that analytics
is an integral part of doing business,
not a separate afterthought.
Analytics activities must be tied
to your business objectives, and
you must be willing to use analytics
in driving business decisions.
Analytics and business together bring
about exciting opportunities and
growth to your big data strategy.
Finally, one size does not fit all.
Hence, big data technologies and
analytics is growing rapidly as your
business is an evolving entity.
You have to iterate your strategy to
take advantage of new advances and
also make your business more
dynamic in the face of change.
As a summary,
when building a big data strategy,
it is important to integrate big data
analytics with business objectives.
Communicate goals and
provide organizational buy-in for
analytics projects.
Build teams with diverse talents,
and establish a teamwork mindset.
Remove barriers to data access and
integration.
Finally, these activities need to be
iterated to respond to new business
goals and technological advances.